Attribution Modeling

## Camapign Cost Managagement, Revenue Attribution and the OSF

### Objective

The objective of this article to is to explain how to do three things: 
1. Allocate Costs to Campaigns
2. Attribute Results back to Campaigns
3. Get all this into Monday.com

Fundementally, this is a 

### Landscape

Before we get into the details, let's look at the big picture. Essentially, we have several concepts that we need to bring together. 

1. Initiative - An initiative lives in Monday.com. It is the main line item that holds all the deliverables needed to complete the iniatitive. 
2. CRM (or Hubspot) Campaign - This is the campaign item in CRM
3. Activities - This is the activities that are generated by the campaign. Each campaign can generate a different activity type. This could be anything such as form fills, event visists, website traffic, outreach emails. 
4. Results - Qos and Won MCV

At it's simplest form, we need to do 


### Part 0: Fix the OSF

I've written, in a seperate article, about the the gaps in the OSF. But breifly, for this purpose, there are two things that need to happen:
1. Campaigns - We need to distinguish between CAMPAIGNS which generate results, and all other types of work in Monday.com. Each Initiative, that is still suppose to generate results, needs to be flagged as a campaign. 
2. Full Coverage of Results - We need to ensure that the campaigns cover ALL results. For example, if we are expecting results from organic web traffic, that needs to be an initiative in Monday.com and a Campaign created in CRM

### Part 1: Allocate Costs to Campaigns

This is easiests of the three steps. Essentially, we have 3 systems that we need to connect:
1. Business Central (BC) - Where the costs are collected
2. CRM (or prehaps Hubspot) - Where we collect the activities
3. Monday.com - Where we want to display the results

For each initiative, we generate a CRM campaign. This generates somethign called an m_code. Whenever we book expenses, the finance teams adds the m_code to the expenses in BC. 

### Part 2: Allocate Activities back to Campaigns

Next, we need to be able to attribute all activities back to campaigns. Each source of activity requires a different approach. There are 5 main sources of activities: 
1. Outreach - Put the m_code into the sequence name. Then, ensure that ALL activities take place through a sequence. 
2. LinkedIn Ads and Google Ads - Put the m_code in the campaign name
3. Events - Each event visit should already be tied back to the CRM Campaign, so no action needed
4. Marketo / Hubspot Campaign


### Part 3: Revenue Attribution

This is the hardest part. 

In principle, what we are trying to do is for each results (QO or Won MCV), take that result, and divide it over the activities that went into the result. 

For example, in it's simplist form, let's say we have a QO that had 10 activities. We could simply say that each activity contributed 1/10 to the success of this QO. Of course, that is not optimal, but regardless of how you weigh each activity, that is what we are doing. 

Decisions: 
1. Time Window: How long before a QO is generated do you want to count activity. Recomendation: 12 - 18 months. 
2. Activity Types: Which activity types should you count? All activites? Only Engaged? Recomendation: 
3. Weighting: How should you weigh each activity? Recomendation: Start Linear, move to something more complex once you get the hang of it. 
    - Linearly: All are weighted the same
    - W-Shaped: The First Touch, Last Touch, Opportunity Creation, or other important moments, count the most. 
    - Decay: The activities that are most recent count the most, the rest slowly decay over time


### Pitfalls to Avoid
1. The Dark Funnel - Of course, there are many activities we are not able to capture. Do not let this stop you from building a model. 
2. Compleixity - Start with a simple model, probably a Linear or W-Shaped, so that people can learn how it works. We had attribution modeling before, and we stopped it because people didn't trust it. 
3. Complete Activty Tracking - Ensure that the attribution model is capturing new types of activities. For example, if we adopt a new application, ensure that the relevent activites are included in campaign tracking and attribution. 
4. Partner - We can think of partner opp reg as an activity. And the creation of partner referral opps as an activity type. This ensures that we capture these events as completely as possible. 
5. Activity Governance - Ensure that activities are tracked correctly. For example that event visits are added to CRM in the correct way. Or that reps are using sequences in outreach. This is NOT a data quality issue, it's a governance issue. 


### Gaps
- This explains how to do this for NB